# Project Mercury

### Game Concept
Based on a word doc that I found on an old computer with a very rough draft of a game.
Earth sends ships on very long many many lightyear voyages. Faster than light travel is not invented yet.
Due to automated systems having issues when traversing this great of distance, there is a team of individuals on each ship that don't get put into cryochambers.
These individuals are responsible for managing and defending the ship while it is on its travel.
They are responsible for maintenance and repair, improvement of systems and defending ships from a known hostile alien force that occupies a stretch of the corridor the human ships travel through.
These ships are small, lightly armed and hard to locate. Designed as a means to send supply and people out to earths colonies on new planets. They don't get a military escort.

### Wake Up
The previous *insert role name here* has been significantly injured and is no longer able to perform their requried tasks. They have initiated the thawing process on you before succumbing to their injuries. When you wake up you are greeted by a brief pre-recorded message and then stumble across the body of your previous *role* member and a hand written note he has left for you detailing a few things he was actively working on before he got injured. As well as some information on how he got injured and what you can do to prevent yourself from meeting his same fate. This information, in addition to a jumpsuit and a datapad in your crew chamber are all you get before you are released to manage the ship. The tutorial runs through the simple tasks that the previous *role* was working on before his untimely death.

### Player Responsibility
Player must manage all aspects of the ship for as long as they live. If the player becomes fatally injured, or has come into bad health or old age, but is able to begin the thaw process for another replacement then they get to continue on as the replacement. If they die before initiating a thawing process they end the game. If they thaw out another individual while they are in good health the new *role* member will become unreasonably upset with the current *role* wasting his life and kill the player resulting in and end game.

While the player is alive they need to maintain and repair the ships navigation systems, radiation shielding, engines, fuel cells, power generation and storage and weapons systems. They also need to defend the ship from any outside force that tries to attack it. They can do this by manning the turret control system in the bridge and using the limited weapon supply of the ship, or they can wait for the enemy to attempt to board and fight from the inside of the ship using the supplies in the ships armory.

All ship supplies are limited. They do not get restocked after each crew members life ends. The player must manage the supplies to last the duration of the trip out to the colony

### Background
In 2039 Earth was plunged into WW3 after the complete collapse of Russia caused a Chinese and North Korean alliance to fire nuclear weapons at the United States and prominent countries in the European Union. The weapons were intercepted and destroyed before they landed. In response to the firing of the weapons a US lead coalition began a land based invasion of North Korea while stationing a large force in southern Japan in preparation for a mass naval invasion in China. North Korea crumbled and fell within days of the ground war starting and the plans to invade China from the sea were changed as the coalition forces continued into China from North Korean territory. The chinese lasted longer than their Korean counterparts but after strategic air attacks reduced their nuclear ability to nothing the army started deserting at mass scale. After the official capitulation of China the coalition made a coordinated surprise invasion of the three remaining Communist countries Cuba, Laos and Vietnam. With Communism wiped from the face of the planet, pro Democracy puppet governments were created to manage the defeated countries.

Shortly after the end of the fall of Communism the US was plunged into a civil war between parties in favor of generating a central world democracy and those in favor of the country retaining its independence. Backed by pro world order forces from Europe the pro democracy forces won the civil war and the US became the primary founding nation of the Terran Republic. After all former EU countries and the defeated former Communist countries joined the Republic another war broke out world wide. This time the Terran Republic began invading any countries that failed to comply with the new ideology of Managed Democracy. A handful of the countries managed to hold on, but eventually the overwhelming military strength of the Republic brough managed democracy to the entire planet.

The world managed peace for another 6 years until a string of anti democracy uprisings in 2047. After the uprisings were quelled the planet managed peace for 311 years. The Republic's space faring capacity increased dramatically during this time and colonies were built on both the Moon and Mars. Faster than Light travel was still considered "likely impossible" but near light speed travel had been accomplished. For the first time in human history manned vessels were sent out of the solar system.

The first few voyages were to mostly inhabitable planets. The 6th voyage encountered something other than a planet. The ships sensory systems failed to detect a moon sized station drifting slowly through space. The Terran vessel ran directly into the station causing the immediate loss of life of everyone on board. Unknowingly, Earth had just ran an exploration ship directly into an alien diplomatic transport killing the leaders of two unknown alien races in the process.
